1.) I typically used print statements for debugging and once i got the md function working i used that while working on the ms function. I tried to use gdb to troubleshoot some segmentation faults but found it pretty useless for me. It seems like its just more effort than its worth compared to the way debugging features are implemented in vs code for example, where I can watch variables line by line. Gdb felt extremely clunky and I couldn't get it it to even show variables value 90% of the time. 
2.) If i try to reference nonexisting memory, I get a segmentation fault on linux and just error out on SAPC, although I can access my own code on the SAPC I am allowed to access my own code, linux will segfualt me for that too
3.) It seems on the SAPC I can edit just about anything with the only limitation being system stability but even then it will only fail when the system does. the unix server gets mad and segfaults if i try to edit the code.
4.) It looks to me like the question is asking where the main is, on linux it exists at 8048330, on SAPC it exists at 100140, it seems a lot more sequential on the SAPC, or at the least its just a lot more detailed
5.) I couldn't get the linux server to be okay with me changing the code directly but causing a crash on the SAPC was trivial to do and merely generated an expection when running the now garbage code.
6.) On linux the ESP value 0xffffdba0, on the tutor it was 0005788c.
7.) I was most surprised that the unix environment doesnt let me edit the code. I can't think of a reason in a full server environment I would need to do that so it makes sense but it was still not my expectations. 
8.) The most frustrating part of this was not being able to work my own customized IDE with all the modern features. particularly the debugging tools i used that let me go line by line and view what each variable was. it was many times more clunky on gdb and usually wouldnt even display the information i wanted. other quality of life things such as different colored brackets the more nested code was could have saved me several from having to add a bracket and recompiling or save me from missing semi colons.
